---
layout: post
title: "Linux Commands : Master 10 Essential Ones and Level Up Your Skills!"
date: 2023-03-08 16:01 +0300
category: [Linux, CLI]
tags: [linux, cli, ubuntu, debian, centos,command_line,linux_101]
---

Are you ready to take your Linux skills to the next level? One of the **best ways** to do this is by mastering essential Linux commands. The commands we are going to look are the **building blocks** of any Linux system and will help you navigate your way around the operating system with ease. 

In this post, we'll cover **Ten** of the most important commands:

1. ## **ls** - List directory contents
Use the **ls** command to list the contents of a directory. For example, "**ls** /home/user/documents" will list all the files and directories in the "documents" directory in your home directory. You can also use various options with "ls" to modify the output, such as "**ls** -l" to display a detailed list with file permissions, ownership, and timestamps.

2. ## **cat** - Concatenate files
Use the **cat** command to concatenate and display the contents of one or more files. For example, "cat file.txt" will display the contents of the "file.txt" file on the screen.

```bash	
$ cat file.txt

Hello world! content displayed by cat command.
```
{: .nolineno }
{: file="/home/golinuxeth/file.txt" }

 You can also use **cat** to concatenate multiple files and redirect the output to a new file, such as "**cat** file1.txt file2.txt > combined.txt".

3. ## **df** - Disk free
Use the "df" command to display information about disk space usage. For example, "df -h" will display disk space usage in a human-readable format, showing the total, used, and available space for each mounted file system. This can be useful for monitoring disk space usage and identifying potential issues before they become serious.
